although everyone vents here and today
in this video I'm going to be showing
you how to partition and unpartitioned
your hard drive on your Windows 7 or
Windows Vista machine if you're stuck
with Windows XP or below I'm sorry but
Microsoft does not include a built-in
partitioning program in their operating
system if you're using Windows XP or
below so I'm going to have to use a
third-party partitioning software if you
want to partition your hard drive if
you're stuck with Windows XP or below
but if you're on Windows 7 or Windows
Vista you're in luck there's a built-in
partitioning program and the process is
the same for both operating systems so
I'm running on a Windows 7 machine so if
you're running on Windows Vista that's
fine
you can follow along because the
directions are 100% the same so I'm not
going to even be explaining what
partitions I'm not going to be
explaining what to do with partitions
because if you reach this video then you
already know what partitions are you
already know what you want to do with
them so let's just get straight to
partitioning it's fairly simple just go
to start or computer right-click it
click on manage click on Disk Management
and take your C Drive right click or C
Drive and click on shrink volume this
window will pop up and this is where you
enter how many megabytes you want your
partition to be this is where we get
into conversions one gigabyte equals
1024 megabytes and so if you want a 10
gigabyte partition we have to use the
windows calculator so let's do 10 times
a thousand 24 that's pretty simple it's
a 10,000 240 but use the calculator if
you're going to do something wacky like
17 gigabytes so 17 times 1,024 so we're
going to partition this into a 10
gigabyte partition and that's a thousand
ten thousand two hundred forty megabytes
so let's add that 10 thousand two
hundred forty megabytes so that's a 10
gigabyte hard drive we click on shrink
windows will shrink your hard drive into
a second partition a 10 gigabyte
partition in this case ok so it shrunk
10 gigabytes out of
see drive and here I have a 10 gigabyte
unallocated partition so what we need to
do is allocate it as I like to say right
click it and click on new simple volume
click on next next assign a letter to
the partition next and make a volume
label so I'm going to put Lubuntu I'm
going to click on perform a quick format
if you want it to be formatting quick
but next finish it will format the drive
and there we go
so if I go to the start and computer I
can see that I having a boom 2d drive I
just partition my hard drive for Ubuntu
in this case let's just say Lubuntu and
I weren't working out and I want to
delete this partition fine
it's easy so just right-click your boom
to drive click on delete volume and now
it's unallocated again now what we need
to do is gain the space back back into
our C Drive because we don't just want
to we don't just want 10 gigabytes lost
in space we want it back to our C Drive
so what we need to do is unpartitioned
it right click click on extend volume
click on next there's ten thousand two
hundred thirty nine megabytes available
to extend so we're going to use that
because I'm finish now as you know so
I'm back to 430 gigabytes instead of 420
since it extended the 10 gigabyte
unallocated volume and that's how to
partition and unpartitioned your hard
drive if you have any questions email me
at Vince at Vince Vaughn comm semi
tweets at twitter.com slash Vince bog
not save 25% off your next hover domain
by using coupon code Vince or typing in
the words VI + C e at checkout or go to
hover comm slash Vince and that's about
it thank you very much leave a comment
leave a rating have a nice day